# OROP2024
Contains R code used to update Table L-1 of the Optimized Regional Operations Plan (OROP) Biennial report for Tampa Bay Water for 2024.

Greenman-Pedersen, Inc. (GPI) was tasked with data acquisition and organization for the Optimized Regional Operations Plan (OROP) analyses. Approximately 40 wetlands and 40 SAS wells were included, with data acquired through Tampa Bay Water’s DataMart or SWFWMD’s WMIS systems. In a previous project, GPI developed reproducible R scripts to update datasets, ensuring computational reproducibility. GPI used post-cutback data and minimal cleaning following GPI's methods. Internally, they reviewed timeseries graphs and bivariate scatterplots for outliers. GPI employed Kendall-Theil regressions with the Conover Intercept for consistency with previous methods. GPI provided recommendations for improving nonparametric regression analysis used to update target well levels in a separate draft (2024) report. They added a section to their report with alternative tables of target elevation results based on three statistical methods. These methods, chosen from ten presented in GPI's draft (2024) report, include Loess Degree 1, Kendall-Theil with Birkes and Dodge Intercept, and Fixed Piecewise Linear Regression. A discussion on how data through WY2023 supports GPI's method recommendations was provided in revisions to the 2024 report. GPI prepared a summary of variability in target elevations due to statistical method and post-cutback, algorithmically-matched data. They compared target elevation results for alternative methods with those using Kendall-Theil with the Conover Intercept and assessed changes in target elevations compared to previous reports.
